Two classes of computer science in which absolute care and precision must be given are computer security, and machine-learning. Computer Security, also known as Cybersecurity, addresses the concern of protecting computer systems from external attacks by hackers and the like (Ralston, et al., 2003). Machine-learning is the field of computer science that involves computers learning to solve problems by example, in contrast to manually programming instructions (Ralston, et al., 2003). Both of these fields are important in the realm of computer science, but they are especially important when they are examined under the lens of human impact. 


It is quite easy to see how computer security can compromise human beings. It’s on the news very often, such as how over 380,000 payment cards were compromised in a recent data breach at British Airways (Khandenwal, 2018) or how nearly half of the US population had their personal information stolen in the Equifax breach (Wieczner, 2017). Hackers were able to find exploits in the code that guarded this data, and steal the data before programmers were able to patch these exploits, particularly in the Equifax case, where the bug was left open for months (Wieczner, 2017). Computer security does not only apply to data security as well, as a Tech Insider video about a team of hackers hacking into the power grid system demonstrates (Tech Insider, 2016). The team of hackers were hired by the power company to test its defenses, but the concern is that some other hackers could take down an entire power grid on their own. Computer security is a rapidly growing field, in response to the increased awareness of cyberattacks, but there is still a lot of work to be done. Right now, there are a lot of protocols in place to prevent these issues from happening, such as employee training and QA testing, but that’s clearly not enough. We’re only 50% of the way there, but we need 100% if we want to minimize the number of victims in each attack.


For machine-learning, the victims are less obvious. Machine-learning in the modern day is based largely on the data that the computer is trained on, so if the data is biased, then the computer is biased as well. Some examples of this include racial bias in face-recognition software from Microsoft, Amazon, and IBM, where up to 35% of darker-skinned females were misidentified (in contrast to the 99% accuracy for white men) (Lohr, 2018), and gender bias in LinkedIn’s search engine, where the search engine was more likely to recommend male names over female names (Day, 2016). These biases originate from the dataset, and are human in nature. Avoiding these problems require careful and precise examination of the underlying data--something that a lot of companies ignore or forget to do. After all, data is data; why would it be biased? Ethical programming in machine-learning is a delicate and time-consuming field that is becoming increasingly important as the problems with AI/ML keep cropping up. The current approach to machine-learning is not nearly as correct as we would hope--when even big companies falter, what hope do the little ones have--but a lot of progress is being made. Facebook, for example, recently announced Fairness Flow, an algorithm designed to measure biases in programs, during the F8 conference (Shankland, 2018). Soon enough, we will be able to eliminate bias from machine-learning programs completely.

Works Cited

Day, M. (2016, September 08). How LinkedIn's search engine may reflect a gender bias. Retrieved September 10, 2018, from https://www.seattletimes.com/business/microsoft/how-linkedins-search-engine-may-reflect-a-bias/
Khandelwal, S. (2018, September 07). British Airways Hacked – 380,000 Payment Cards Compromised. Retrieved September 10, 2018, from https://thehackernews.com/2018/09/british-airways-data-breach.html
Lohr, S. (2018, February 09). Facial Recognition Is Accurate, if You're a White Guy. Retrieved September 10, 2018, from https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/09/technology/facial-recognition-race-artificial-intelligence.html
Ralston, A., Reilly, E. D., & Hemmendinger, D. (2003). Encyclopedia of Computer Science, 4th Edition. John Wiley & Sons.
Shankland, S. (2018, May 02). Facebook starts building AI with an ethical compass. Retrieved September 10, 2018, from https://www.cnet.com/news/facebook-starts-building-ai-with-an-ethical-compass/
Tech Insider (2016, May 11). Watch hackers break into the US Power Grid. Retrieved September 10, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pL9q2lOZ1Fw 
Wieczner, J., & Roberts, J. J. (2017, October 20). The Equifax Breach Could End the Credit Industry as We Know It. Retrieved September 10, 2018, from http://fortune.com/2017/10/20/equifax-breach-credit/
